If we take a business perspective,
a business is in general set of business processes.
What we want to do here is actually to separate
what's known as operational processes from analytical processes.
The motto of the operational processes is "Make it work."
We need to find the goods,
we need to stock the goods,
we need to pick up and deliver the goods,
and these are operational processes
and we don't care about the reporting or analytics or anything like that.
A guy sitting in front of the cashier doesn't really care about analytics,
all what he wants is to serve the customer really quickly.
However, we have a different set of processes which are
the analytical processes and these are the motto that, "Hey, what's going on?"
Here we need to assess performance,
look into really a bigger scope,
really the big picture guy,
not like I want to get my job done gone.
That's actually the business perspective.
To put that more in perspective,
we say so what happens if we just try and get the same databases that we have.
These are operational databases and we say to ourselves,
well, they are excellent cooperation,
there is no redundancy,
there is high integrity and if designed properly,
they are doing the job impeccably.
But maybe let's try them for analytics.
One thing would actually work.
They wouldn't say no but they wouldn't do that job really
well because this is really too slow for analytics,
there are too many joints and it's too hard to understand.
Why they are too hard to understand because they were modeled in
mind for these three normal form and so on from a technical perspective.
Even if they are easy to understand,
if I have to give you that,
actually just having all the load on these,
these are pretty hard tough workloads.
Just having both processes running on
the same databases is not going to be good to start with.
The general solution is the warehouse where basically,
we're going to take these data sources and we're going to do something with them,
transfer them to another thing and that thing should be
able to support our analytical processes well.
That created actually the idea of OLAP vs OLTP,
i.e online transaction processing which we already have
versus the new thing which we don't know what it is,
I know you have an idea, which is actually the online analytical processing.
The data warehouse is a system which includes the processes,
the technologies and data representations that
enables us to support the analytical processes.